.TH SEGYIO-CROP 1
.SH NAME
segyio-crop \- Copy a sub cube from SRC to DST
.SH SYNPOSIS
.B segyio-crop
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
\fISOURCE DEST\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B segyio-crop
Copy a sub cube from SEG-Y file SOURCE to DEST.

.PP
If no \fBbegin\fR or \fBend\fR options are specified, this program is
essentially a copy. If a \fBbegin\fR option is omitted, the program copies from
the start of the file. If an \fBend\fR option is omitted, the program copies
until the end of file is reached.

.PP
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-iline-begin =\fILINE\fR
inline to copy from

.TP
.BR \-I ", " \-\-iline-end=\fILINE\fR
inline to copy to (inclusive)

.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-xline-begin =\fILINE\fR
crossline to copy from

.TP
.BR \-X ", " \-\-xline-end=\fILINE\fR
crossnline to copy to (inclusive)

.TP
.BR \-\-inline-begin =\fILINE\fR
alias to \-\-iline-begin

.TP
.BR \-\-inline-end =\fILINE\fR
alias to \-\-iline-end

.TP
.BR \-\-crossline-begin =\fILINE\fR
alias to \-\-xline-begin

.TP
.BR \-\-crossline-end =\fILINE\fR
alias to \-\-xline-end

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sample-begin =\fILINE\fR
sample to copy from

.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-sample-end=\fILINE\fR
sample to copy to (inclusive)

.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-il =\fINUM\fR
inline header word byte offset; must align with SEG-Y defined offsets

defaults to 189

.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-xl =\fINUM\fR
crossline header word byte offset; must align with SEG-Y defined offsets

defaults to 193

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
increase verbosity

.TP
.BR \-\-version
output version information and exit

.TP
.BR \-\-help
display this help and exit

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © Statoil ASA. License LPLv3+: GNU LGPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html>.

.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.  There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
