.TH SEGYIO-CATR 1
.SH NAME
segyio-catr \- Print selected headers from FILE
.SH SYNPOSIS
.B segyio-catr
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
\fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B segyio-cath
Print selected traceheaders from SEG-Y file FILE

.PP

The flag\fB-r\fR takes up to three vales; START, STOP, STEP, which is a closed inteval from START to STOP.
The third value STEP can be specified to print i.e. every other trace in the interval. All values are defaulted to zero.
Flags \fB-r\fR and \fB-t\fR can be called multiple times.

.PP
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-trace=\fINUMBER\fR
trace(s) to print

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-range \fISTART\fR [\fSTOP\fR \fISTEP\fR]
range of trace(s) to print. \fISTOP\fR and \fISTEP\fR are optional, and
defaults to \fISTART\fR and 1 respectively.

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-strict
fail on unreadable tracefields

.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-non-strict
don't fail on unreadable fields
this is the default behavior

.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-segyio-names
print with segyio tracefield names

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
increase verbosity

.TP
.BR \-\-version
output version information and exit

.TP
.BR \-\-help
display this help and exit

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © Statoil ASA. License LGPLv3+: GNU LGPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html>.

.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
segyio-cath(1), segyio-catb(1)
